Document weblate: tools and TRANSLATING.md (#2880)
jamulussoftware/jamulus: docs/TRANSLATING.md

This guide is written to provide instructions from scratch for contributing to the translation of the Jamulus application to other languages.

> The code for Jamulus is open source, and is managed and made available via the Github site. However, translators are not required to use GitHub. Jamulus is available on [Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jamulus source code is libre software, managed and made available via GitHub. However, translators are not required to use GitHub. The Jamulus translation effort is conducted on [Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/).
```

Author: I think we agreed that we call Jamulus Free and open source somewhere, https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/issues/42 hints at it.

Reviewer: It is short of what is a meaningful distinction from only free software/open source.
Also, errors in translation occurs with "free", and "open source" isn't a trademark in other languages.
Thereby the issue of not focusing on freedoms sells it short of even free software.
Free software in turn gets mistaken for freeware.

Author: See https://jamulus.io:

> Since Jamulus is [free and open source software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.en.html) (FOSS) licensed under the [GPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html), you can help us!

was the result on what we decided. So it should be comparable here (not copylefted libre software which is technically true, but is yet another phrase)

Reviewer: It doesn't work anywhere, so whether it is temporarily consistent is a secondary concern.
https://remmina.org/ works
https://www.jamovi.org/ and https://jamulus.io/ does not work

People don't know what the GPL is, and even if they did, there are three versions of that license.
There is also "Play music online. With friends. For free." which makes a bigger point out of it being gratis, which undersells freedom.
The landing side is not a place where the decisions made command any sort of authority.
Mac should be "macOS". (like it is in the side-menu)
Erroneous use of an ampersand (&).
Triple self-referencing (and then som), with redundant info in the ingress, not line-shifted at that.
 and brings → bringing
Wall of text inducing stress.
Exclamation points after two consecutive sentences for no good reason.
Duplicated button making the website more likely to scroll vertically.
"ASIO is a trademark and software of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH " should be in a mouse-over.

How about reducing the workload to just the work being done and then look at it all once done to see if something can be improved upon?

Author: Thanks for raising these issues. I've opened an issue on the documentation repo. 

> How about reducing the workload to just the work being done and then look at it all once done to see if something can be improved upon?

As it's part of the main repo and mainly for contributors, I think we could also remove it fully as it's probably not even necessary. The GPL is part of the repo, linked on Weblate and FLOSS is pretty obvious.

Author: Suggestion: 

Jamulus managed and made available via GitHub. However, translators are not required to use GitHub...

Reviewer: "is"?
"Translators need not use GitHub for anything beside ___"

Author: Ok. Even shortened it a bit more.

Applied.

Author: > "Translation thereof can be done without the use of GitHub, whereas fixing source strings yourself(?) requires it."

Yes (although the installer should support it). I think the source strings issue should be fixed, but I'm not sure if and how Qt supports it.

You have two options to translate Jamulus:

> 1. Using [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/) (online translation, easier and more feature rich. However, as of 09/2022, it will show your email address on GitHub.) (recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Using [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/) (online translation, easier and more feature rich. However, as of 09/2022, it will show your e-mail address on GitHub.) (recommended)
```
deus vult

Reviewer 2: "e-mail" is a bit old fashioned, isn't it?

Author: Not sure. applied anyway.

> 2. Using git directly (more advanced, but you can test your changes on your machine locally)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using Git directly (more advanced, but you can test your changes on your machine locally)
```

---

## Introduction (using Weblate)

> For easier communication, a translator should [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/) and - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below for easier communication.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add something like "Ensure the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning.  This ensures you will have the proper access and support provided."

> For easier communication, a translator should [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/) and - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below for easier communication. Before beginning any translation, please fill the Weblate profile.

Author: ```suggestion
For easier communication, a translator should [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/) and - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below for easier communication.
```

> Translators should - if possible - have a GitHub account to communicate, as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below. This account should be used to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language beforehand (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. Have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) for what to expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Translators should  (if possible) have a GitHub account to communicate, as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the Git section below. This account can also be used to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language beforehand (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you have proper access and that support is provided. Have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) for what to expect.
```

Author: Applied in a slightly different way (can --> should) as stronger suggestion.

Reviewer: That also breaks the FSF and DFSG guidelines, because it steers the user towards use of closed source software.
I don't understand how using GitHub OAuth is somehow better.

> For easier communication, a translator should - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below and use it to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Reviewer 3: "For easier communication, a translator should _**have**_ - if possible - a GitHub account as described..."

Author: Fixed

> For easier communication, a translator should - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below and use it to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Reviewer 2: > Ensure the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language beforehand (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)).

I think, as we're proposing this, the need for a GitHub account should just be made a requirement.  I'd put the order as
* create a GitHub account (per description link)
* raise the GitHub issue (per description link) or comment on the appropriate issue
* once confirmed, proceed to create a Weblate account, linked to the GitHub account (per description link)
* proceed to Weblate, do not pass go, do not collect &curren;200.

> For easier communication, a translator should - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below and use it to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Reviewer: I see the Weblate comments (since I subscribe).
You will moreso have "all" the issues on GitHub, but fewer issues raised because of it.

> For easier communication, a translator should - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below and use it to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Author: Applied.

> For easier communication, a translator should [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/) and - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below for easier communication. Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Looks good.

> For easier communication, a translator should [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/) and - if possible - a GitHub account as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the git section below for easier communication. Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language before beginning (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and support provided. You can have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) to see what to expect.

Author: Done.

## Using Weblate for translation

> After having logged in to Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account, visit the [Jamulus project page on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are seveal components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo in the next hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Author: > After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website.

Might be clarified further. But it could also be enough.

> After having logged in to Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account - visit the [Jamulus project page on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are several components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo in the next hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Reviewer 3: "After logging into Weblate..."

Author: Fixed

> After having logged in to Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account - visit the [Jamulus project page on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are several components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo in the next hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visit the [Jamulus project page on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/) after logging in there Weblate (preferably with a GitHub account). The Jamulus translation effort consists of multiple components. Click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language to translate e.g. the Jamulus application. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a pull request in the Jamulus Git repository within the next few hours, where your translation will be reviewed.
```

Reviewer 2: > Click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language to translate e.g. the Jamulus application.

No, clicking on "Jamulus app" _will_ let you choose the languge for the Jamulus application.  This is what this page is about.  There should be a mention somewhere of the installer, though.  Maybe both should be here.  None of the other components are relevant, though.

Reviewer: @pljones I updated the comment.
They are all linked components though, so translating "Jamulus app" should suffice.
I don't understand "After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website."
How can I find those?

It is possible to adjust the ranking of WL components to put the important ones up top.

Reviewer 2: If you're translating the app and installer, only the app and installer ones need touching.

If you're updating the website, my understanding is it's everything _except_ the app and installer ones.

It's like this because of how Weblate and where the source comes from interact, as far as I understand.

Author: @pljones is correct. I've nevertheless applied some changes.

> After having logged in to Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account, visit the [Jamulus project page on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are seveal components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo in the next hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After having logged in to Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account - visit the [Jamulus project page on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are seveal components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "Jamulus app" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo in the next hours, where your translation will be reviewed.
```

> After logging into Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account - visit the [Jamulus project page on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are several components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "[Jamulus app](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/)" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo within the next few hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Author: I think we should write application here to describe what app means (Jamulus is mostly not used as smartphone app and thus should have a clarification here).

> After logging into Weblate - best with a linked GitHub account - visit the [Jamulus project page on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are several components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the Jamulus application, click on "[Jamulus app](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/)" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a Pull Request on the Jamulus repo within the next few hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Author: Done.

> More information is provided by the [Weblate documentation](https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More info is provided in the [Weblate documentation](https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/).
```

Author: So no link to the latest version?

Reviewer: @ann0see It redirects to that. The issue is more-so to avoid the "en" in cases where the browser user agent asks for a different locale.

Author: Ok. Thanks.

> More information is provided in the [Weblate documentation](https://docs.weblate.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More info is provided in the [Weblate documentation](https://docs.weblate.org/).
```

Author: Done.

---

> ## Introduction (using git)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction (using Git)
```

> For completeness, this document describes the use both of GitHub (using `git`) and of _Qt Linguist_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For completeness, this document describes the use of both GitHub (using `git`), and _Qt Linguist_.
```

Author: Fixed.

> For completeness, this document describes the use of both GitHub (using `git`), and of _Qt Linguist_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For completeness, this document describes the use of both GitHub (using the `git` command), and of _Qt Linguist_.
```

Author: I think it's not about the command, but rather about the whole process...

Reviewer: Changed to "Git" then.

> The translator must be able to do the following steps, which will each be explained further down:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The translator must be able to carry out the following steps, each of which are explained below:
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that does sound better.

You have two options to translate Jamulus:
1. Using [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/) (online translation, easier and more feature rich. However, as of 10/2022, it will show your e-mail address on GitHub.) (recommended)
2. Using Git directly (more advanced, but you can test your changes on your machine locally)

---

## Introduction (using Weblate)

Translators should (if possible) have a GitHub account to communicate, as described in the **1. Setting up** paragraph in the Git section below. This account should be used to [create an account on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/accounts/register/). Ensure that the Jamulus main developers are aware of your intentions to translate to your chosen language beforehand (e.g. by [creating or commenting on a respective issue during the release process for your language on GitHub](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/issues)). This ensures you will have proper access and that support is provided. Have a look at the [adding a new language (checklist)](#adding-a-new-language-checklist) for what to expect.

## Using Weblate for translation

> After logging into Hosted Weblate, visit the [Jamulus project page on Hosted Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/). There are several components dedicated to the Jamulus project. If you want to translate e.g. the main Jamulus program, click on "[Jamulus app](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/jamulus/jamulus-app/)" and choose your language. After that, translate the strings displayed on the Website. Weblate will open or update a pull request on the Jamulus repo within the next few hours, where your translation will be reviewed.

Reviewer 3: It might be good to specify the two files related to the app that need to be translated ("jamulus app" and "Windows installer") for those who just want to translate the app.

- Use the Qt Linguist tool to edit the appropriate translation (`.ts`) file.
- Commit the updated `.ts` file to the branch their own local git repo.
- Push the branch from their local repo to their own repo on Github.

> - Raise a pull request (PR) for the merging of the updated file into the upstream repo by the developers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Create a pull request (PR) the developers can use to merge the updated file into the upstream repo.
```

git push --set-upstream origin translate-r3_7_0-german
```

> Finally, go to the Github website where it will most likely offer a banner saying there is a recent commit and offering to raise a pull request. Do so.

Reviewer 4: GitHub capitalizes the H, though we can ignore this for now.

---

## Adding a new language (checklist)

The following section describes how to add a new language and what to do or wait for.
Please open an issue on GitHub and introduce yourself first, even if you intend to add the translation files yourself.

After having opened an issue on GitHub:

> 1. Fork the Jamulus repository as described above, then install Qt on your maching. (You will need `lrelease` and `lupdate` later on.)

Author: ```suggestion
1. Fork the Jamulus repository as described above, then install Qt on your machine. (You will need `lrelease` and `lupdate` later on.)
```

Reviewer 2: > install Qt

That's rather vague...

Author: No. It depends on the OS, so maybe link to COMPILING.md?

> 2. Create a branch based on the `master` branch: Locally navigate to the folder you cloned the repo with `cd /path/to/jamulus/repo` and type `git checkout -b "translate-add-xx_XX"` where xx_XX is the language code of the new language.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Create a branch based on the `master` branch: Locally navigate to the folder you cloned the repo with (`cd /path/to/jamulus/repo`) and type `git checkout -b "translate-add-xx_XX"` where xx_XX is the language code of the new language.
```

Reviewer 2: Why
> (`cd /path/to/jamulus/repo`)

?  Maybe with "with" inside it would be better:
> (with `cd /path/to/jamulus/repo`)

> 2. Create a branch based on the `master` branch: Locally navigate to the folder you cloned the repo (with `cd /path/to/jamulus/repo`) and type `git checkout -b "translate-add-xx_YY"` where xx_YY is the language code of the new language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a branch based on the `master` branch: Locally navigate to the folder you cloned the repo to (with `cd /path/to/jamulus/repo`) and type `git checkout -b "translate-add-xx_YY"` where xx_YY is the language code of the new language.
```

Author: We use repo and repository interchangeably as mentioned in the git section.

Reviewer: I try to make it "repository", because it at best sells people on an unfamiliar concept.
"Repository" is a little easier to understand than "repo" in that sense.

> 3. Open the Jamulus.pro file in an editor such as `nano`: `nano Jamulus.pro` and add your language file (which will be created later) in alphabetical order to the `TRANSLATIONS` variable. The format should match the other present languages.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Open Jamulus.pro in an editor such as `nano`: `nano Jamulus.pro` and add your language file (which will be created later) in alphabetical order to the `TRANSLATIONS` variable. The format should match the other present languages.
```

> 4. Also add `src/translation/translation_xx_YY.qm` to the DISTFILES variable similar to the other files

Reviewer 2: `xx_XX` or `xx_YY` - be consistent...

Author: Done.

5. Save and close Jamulus.pro.

> 6. Add the `.qm` file in `src/resources.qrc` similar to the other languages.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Add the `.qm` file in `src/resources.qrc` similar to other languages.
```

> 7. Now move back to the repository root and run `lupdate Jamulus.pro` and afterwards `lrelease Jamulus.pro` which should create all of the necessary files.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Now move back to the repository root and run `lupdate Jamulus.pro`. Afterwards run `lrelease Jamulus.pro` which should create all of the necessary files.
```

Reviewer 2: > Afterwards run 

Needs a comma after "Afterwards"?

> 8. Finally, add, commit and push your changes to your repository with the following commands: `git add src/translation/translation_xx_YY.* src/resources.qrc`, `git commit -m "Translation: Add empty xx_YY translation"`, `git push`

Author: your changes to your repository sounds strange.

Reviewer 2: Just drop "to your repository".

> 8. Finally, add, commit and push the changes to your repository with the following commands: `git add src/translation/translation_xx_YY.* src/resources.qrc`, `git commit -m "Translation: Add empty xx_YY translation"`, `git push`

Reviewer 2: Plus `Jamulus.pro`.

> 8. Finally, add, commit and push the changes to your repository with the following commands: `git add src/translation/translation_xx_YY.* src/resources.qrc`, `git commit -m "Translation: Add empty xx_YY translation"`, `git push`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Finally, add, commit and push the changes to your repository with the following commands: `git add Jamulus.pro src/translation/translation_xx_YY.* src/resources.qrc`, `git commit -m "Translation: Add empty xx_YY translation"`, `git push`
```

> 9. Open a Pull Request from your repo to the main repo with a brief description that you plan to translate Jamulus to your language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Open a pull request from your repo to the main repo with a brief description that you plan to translate Jamulus to your language
```

> 9. Open a Pull request from your repo to the main repo with a brief description that you plan to translate Jamulus into your language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Open a Pull request from your repo to the main repo with a brief description that you plan to translate Jamulus to your language
```

Author: Done.

> 10. Once the Pull Request is merged, Weblate should pick up the new language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Once the pull request is merged, Weblate should pick up the new language.
```

### Adding a translation to the Windows installer

> To add a new translation to the Installer, assuming you do similar steps with git as described above:

Reviewer 2: > assuming you do similar steps with git as described above

What does that refer to?

Author: To the "translating with git" section

Reviewer 2: Might be worth a link, then: [as described above](...#heading) -- presuming we can link in wiki pages to headings.

> To add a new translation to the Installer, assuming you do similar steps with git [as described above](#adding-a-new-language-checklist):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new translation to the Installer (assuming you do similar steps with Git) [as described above](#adding-a-new-language-checklist):
```

Reviewer 2: The "as described above" pertain to "with Git", so would need to be inside the brackets.  Probably best left with just the comma.

Reviewer: Updated

Author: Done.

> 1. Copy `src/translation/wininstaller/en_UK.nsi` to `src/translation/wininstaller/xx_YY.nsi`

Reviewer 2: `en_UK`  is not the correct language code for English as used in Great Britain, by the way.  See [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#ISO_3166-1_and_UN_M.49).

2. Add your language with [the correct language code](https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Examples/Modern%20UI/MultiLanguage.nsi) to `src/translation/installerlng.nsi` by following the file format

> 3. Rename `${LANG_ENGLISH}` to the respective value you set in installerlng.nsi in xx_YY.nsi

Reviewer 2: I'll assume someone doing this will understand what it means.  Maybe it could do with an example.

Author: I think the link to https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Examples/Modern%20UI/MultiLanguage.nsi and other languages is sufficient.

> ### After a language was added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### After a language is added
```

Author: Why do you suggest present tense here?

Pinging @pljones @gilgongo (as native speakers)

Reviewer: Less complex, and more natural.
Alternatively "After a/your language is added"

Author: Ok. Done

Reviewer 2: `After a language is added` sounds better.

Author: So should I change it to after a language was added? (Not your)?

Author: Done.

> After adding a language, you can begin translating via Weblate or git, as described in the first section of this guide. If you intend to work on the translation for longer, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. To gain access, please contact the administrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding a language, you can begin translating via Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide.
If you intend to work on the translation for longer, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. Please contact the administrators to gain access .
```

Author: Done.

> After adding a language, you can begin translating via Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide. If you intend to work on the translation for longer, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. To gain access, please contact the administrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding a language, you can begin translating via Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide.
If you intend to work on the translation for longer, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. To gain access, please contact the administrators.
```

Author: Fixed.

> After adding a language, you can begin translating via Hosted Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide. If you intend to work on the translation for longer, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. To gain access, please contact the administrators.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After adding a language, you can start translating using Hosted Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide. If you plan to work on the translation for a longer period, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as the translators channel on Discord or Matrix. To gain access, please contact the administrators.
```

Author: No. GitHub Org adding and Matrix/Discord adding are done simultaneously. Usually only after a larger translation was submitted and merged.

Author: Applied suggestion below by @comradekingu

> After adding a language, you can start translating using Hosted Weblate or Git, as described in the first section of this guide. If you plan to work on the translation for a longer period, you will be invited to the Jamulus organisation as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. Please contact the administrators to gain access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start translating the new language using Hosted Weblate or Git (as described in the first section of this guide). If you plan to work on the translation for a longer period, please contact the administrators to be invited to the Jamulus organisation, as well as translators channel on Discord or Matrix. .
```

Author: No. We will provide them after verification. I thought you already got an invite?

Author: For the other part I'll have a look at it in the next few days.

Author: Ok. Finished.

> Because every contributor can and should be added to the in-app contributor list, please remind us to add you to the `src/utils.h` file as translator or raise a Pull request yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because every contributor can and should be added to the in-app contributor list, please remind us to add you to the `src/utils.h` file as translator or raise a pull request yourself.
```
A "translator-credit" string means less overhead.

Author: Done.

> A "translator-credit" string allows for less overhead.
Maybe? I'd like to put the translators and contributors in another file at least.

> Because every contributor can and should be added to the in-app contributor list, please remind us to add you to the `src/utils.h` file as translator or raise a Pull Request yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because every contributor can and should be added to the in-app contributor list, kindly remind us to add you to the `src/utils.h` file as translator or raise a pull request yourself.
```

> Because every contributor can and should be added to the in-app contributor list, please remind us to add you to the `src/utils.h` file as translator or raise a pull request yourself.

Reviewer 4: I suggest that pull requests are created rather than raised.

Author: I think we usually use the terminology "raise" in the docs? At least @pljones uses this terminology, I think? But we can change it ofc.

Reviewer 2: I'd generally say "raise".  Same terminology as in "raise your hand" or "raise an objection".

Reviewer 3: A quick Google shows that 'create' is by far the most widely used.
